+++
title = "SimplePie Beta 2"
+++

Released on 2 June 2006.

## New Features {#new_features}

- Support for embedded enclosures. This is a different function from the old enclosures code, which is more basic. Utilizes QuickTime for most formats. Also supports Windows Media and Flash. Odeo <abbr title="Motion Picture Experts Group Layer 3">MP3</abbr>'s utilize the Flash-based Odeo Player. Bypasses issues with the recently released Eolas changes to <abbr title="Internet Explorer">IE</abbr>.
- You can now manually configure which tags and attributes are stripped from the feed content. Intelligent defaults are used otherwise.
- Support for namespaces: <abbr title="Extensible Markup Language">XML</abbr>, <abbr title="Rich Site Summary">RSS</abbr>, <abbr title="Rich Site Summary">RSS</abbr> 2, <abbr title="Resource Description Framework">RDF</abbr>, Atom, Dublin Core, Content, and <abbr title="Extensible HyperText Markup Language">XHTML</abbr>.
- Errors that occur when a feed cannot be found and when there is a parsing error are now caught in a special error property. Since these are SimplePie-specific errors, these are handled differently than other errors. These error messages can now be styled to fit your particular application.
- Option that allows you to encode potentially dangerous tags instead of stripping them.
- `handle_content_type`, when placed before any output to the page, will automatically set the proper character encoding for the feed output (UTF-8), as well as the correct mime-type (`text/html`). A different mime-type can be passed as a string parameter.
- Support for the [iconv](http://php.net/iconv) extension. This brings the total number of supported encodings to 98. See the supported character encodings chart for more details.
- Support for Basic Authentication.
- `pcast: is now a supported protocol. * Support for stripping certain kinds of advertisements from feeds. Namely Pheedo, AdSense, and the large image ad from InfoWorld.com. * Compatibility layer that allows existing Beta 1 installations to utilize the Beta 2 library without any rewriting (although moving to the Beta 2 syntax is recommended as Beta 1 is no longer supported). * SimplePie Compatibility Test that assists users in determining if their webhost supports everything they need to run SimplePie optimally. * One-click support for Netvibes, Blinklist, and Ma.gnolia. * Support for `xml:base`. ===== Changes in this Release ===== * SimplePie is now properly object-oriented. Some of the syntax has been slightly changed (i.e. each item is now an object with properties and methods), but it's all for the best. * `\<script\>`tags have been stripped by default for quite a while. Now, inline event handlers are as well by default. *`get_item_quantity()`now accepts a maximum value for the parameter. The function will either return the maximum value or the total number of items/entries in the feed—whichever is less. * The enclosures property of the item object is now an array that contains all available enclosures. * All feed output is served as UTF-8. All of it. This allows you to put multiple feeds on the same page without worrying about conflicts between UTF-8, ISO-8859-1, and US-ASCII. * The image hotlink block bypass is now fully integrated into the core of SimplePie, an is as easy as setting a configuration option. ===== Fixes in this Release ===== * Parsing core was completely re-written from scratch to better support Atom and other standards in general. * Relative URL's in feed content are now resolved back to the originating site instead of the SimplePie implementor's domain. * Issues with tag and attribute stripping. * CDATA sections within CDATA sections are now properly supported. * Images in Yahoo! News feeds are now supported. * A slew of issues with the Atom 1.0 feed from tbray.org * SimplePie is now fully RFC3339/ISO8601 complaint (for dates and timestamps and such). * Some glitches where tags with the same name, even if they are for different purposes, were getting confused with each other. * Other miscellaneous bugs and support forum issues. ===== Known Issues ===== * Does not support the ISO8601 datestamps in Blogger Beta feeds * Feeds where the items either don't have a datestamp or the datestamp is not understood will sort by oldest to newest, rather than the (better) newest to oldest. * Self-closing author tags will cause crashes *`<a href="@/wiki/reference/simplepie/get_version.md" class="wikilink2">get_version</a>`is broken * Lots of bugs with rewritten image URLs for bypassing image hotlink blocks. This feature can be disabled by setting the following configuration option:`bypass_image_hotlink(false)'' \* Invalid dates return 31 December 1969 \* Feeds with superfluous spaces in around equals-signs cause parse issues \* Random issues with <abbr title="International Organization for Standardization">ISO</abbr>-8859-1 feeds \* Some strtotime() RFC822 inconsistencies \* Various issues with <http://www.tbray.org/ongoing/ongoing.atom> ===== Announcement ===== \* [http://simplepie.org/blog/2006/06/02/simplepie-beta-2-is-now-available/](/blog/2006/06/02/simplepie-beta-2-is-now-available/ "http://simplepie.org/blog/2006/06/02/simplepie-beta-2-is-now-available/")
